README.md, before:

# Hello, I'm Ethan!

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://readme-typing-svg.herokuapp.com?font=Fira+Code&pause=1000&color=00D4FF&center=true&vCenter=true&width=435&lines=Python+Developer;Java+Developer;JavaScript+Developer;Full+Stack+Developer;Automation+Engineer;macOS+%26+Windows+Developer" alt="Typing SVG" />
</div>

---

## About Me

I'm a passionate developer focused on building innovative solutions and exploring cutting-edge technologies. Currently enrolled in a computer science mentorship program with Cisco professionals, where I'm learning to create monetizable projects, process subscriptions, and analyze profitability—focusing on passion-driven work with strategic business guidance.

**Educational Background:**

- **Early Computer Introduction** - Introduced to computers at age 8, developing a strong passion for technology and computing
- **Reverse Engineering** - Analyzed systems to understand their inner workings and architecture
- **Cybersecurity Research** - Studied major cyberthreats throughout history, learning how vulnerabilities were exploited and how attacks were mitigated
- **Military Cyberwarfare** - Researched cybersecurity applications in military operations and national defense
- **First Coding Experience** - Discovered passion for programming in 8th grade STEM class
- **High School Computer Science** - Completed 3 years including AP Computer Science Principles (JavaScript with blocks), Python programming, and Java development courses
- **Current AP Courses** - Enrolled in AP Calculus AB, AP Statistics, and AP English Literature
- **Strong Foundation** - Comprehensive understanding across multiple programming paradigms

**Technical Skills:**

- **Python** - Primary language for automation and backend development
- **Java** - Enterprise application and system development
- **JavaScript** - Dynamic web application development
- **Lua** - Scripting and automation for macOS (Hammerspoon)
- **API Development** - Building and integrating RESTful APIs
- **Cybersecurity** - Vulnerability analysis, attack vectors, and defense mechanisms
- **AI Integration** - Leveraging AI tools to enhance development efficiency
- **Reverse Engineering** - System analysis and architecture understanding
- **RF/Hardware Hacking** - Radio signal processing, infrared emulation, and hardware analysis
- **Docker** - Containerization and deployment
- **Node.js** - Server-side JavaScript development
- **HTML/CSS** - Web development and styling
- **Video Processing** - Automated content creation workflows
- **Data Analysis** - Educational workflow automation tools

## Tech Stack

<div align="center">

### Languages
![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=white)
![Java](https://img.shields.io/badge/Java-ED8B00?style=for-the-badge&logo=openjdk&logoColor=white)
![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/JavaScript-F7DF1E?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=black)
![Lua](https://img.shields.io/badge/Lua-2C2D72?style=for-the-badge&logo=lua&logoColor=white)
![HTML5](https://img.shields.io/badge/HTML5-E34F26?style=for-the-badge&logo=html5&logoColor=white)
![CSS3](https://img.shields.io/badge/CSS3-1572B6?style=for-the-badge&logo=css3&logoColor=white)

### Tools & Technologies
![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-2496ED?style=for-the-badge&logo=docker&logoColor=white)
![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-43853D?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white)
![Git](https://img.shields.io/badge/Git-F05032?style=for-the-badge&logo=git&logoColor=white)
![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-100000?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white)
![PostgreSQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/PostgreSQL-316192?style=for-the-badge&logo=postgresql&logoColor=white)
![SQLite](https://img.shields.io/badge/SQLite-003B57?style=for-the-badge&logo=sqlite&logoColor=white)
![Flask](https://img.shields.io/badge/Flask-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=flask&logoColor=white)
![FastAPI](https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-005571?style=for-the-badge&logo=fastapi&logoColor=white)

### Development Tools
![VS Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/VS_Code-007ACC?style=for-the-badge&logo=visual-studio-code&logoColor=white)
![Cursor](https://img.shields.io/badge/Cursor-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=cursor&logoColor=white)
![Hammerspoon](https://img.shields.io/badge/Hammerspoon-FF6600?style=for-the-badge&logo=hammerspoon&logoColor=white)

### AI Tools
![ChatGPT](https://img.shields.io/badge/ChatGPT-74AA9C?style=for-the-badge&logo=openai&logoColor=white)
![Cursor](https://img.shields.io/badge/Cursor_AI-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=cursor&logoColor=white)
![DeepSeek](https://img.shields.io/badge/DeepSeek-1F2937?style=for-the-badge&logo=deepseek&logoColor=white)
![Claude](https://img.shields.io/badge/Claude-CC785C?style=for-the-badge&logo=anthropic&logoColor=white)
![Grok](https://img.shields.io/badge/Grok-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=x&logoColor=white)

### Platforms
![macOS](https://img.shields.io/badge/macOS-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=apple&logoColor=white)
![Windows](https://img.shields.io/badge/Windows-0078D6?style=for-the-badge&logo=windows&logoColor=white)

</div>

## Current Focus

- **Cisco Mentorship Program** - Learning to build monetizable projects and subscription-based businesses with profitability analysis
- **Passion-Driven Development** - Working on projects that align with my interests and technical goals
- **Business Strategy** - Understanding project viability through revenue analysis and cost evaluation
- Building modern web applications
- Mastering containerization with Docker
- Exploring microservices architecture
- Learning mobile development patterns

## GitHub Stats

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=ethanstoner&show_icons=true&theme=dark&hide_border=true&count_private=true" alt="GitHub Stats" />
  <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=ethanstoner&layout=compact&theme=dark&hide_border=true" alt="Top Languages" />
</div>

## GitHub Trophies

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github-profile-trophy.vercel.app/?username=ethanstoner&theme=darkhub&no-frame=true&row=1&column=7" alt="GitHub Trophies" />
</div>

## Streak Stats

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://streak-stats.demolab.com?user=ethanstoner&theme=dark&hide_border=true&date_format=M%20j%5B%2C%20Y%5D&cache_bust=1761858043" alt="GitHub Streak" />
</div>

## Featured Projects

### HumanLike Typer
**Realistic human typing emulator for macOS**

A sophisticated typing automation tool that simulates realistic human typing patterns with QWERTY-based typos, variable speed (90-130 WPM), and natural rhythm. Features include smart punctuation conversion, GUI configuration, and seamless integration with macOS.

- QWERTY-based typos with 60% adjacent-key mistakes and 40% transpositions
- Variable speed (90-130 WPM) with natural rhythm and pauses
- Smart punctuation conversion for seamless typing
- GUI configuration for speed and typo frequency
- Built with Lua and Hammerspoon

[View on GitHub](https://github.com/ethanstoner/humanlike-typer)

### Quiz Sorter for TAs
**Professional tool for organizing Wayground quiz data with attendance tracking**

A comprehensive solution designed specifically for Teaching Assistants to streamline quiz data processing. Features intelligent name matching, attendance integration, multi-quiz merging, and professional PDF output generation.

- Smart name matching and attendance integration
- Alphabetical sorting with professional PDF output
- Smart retakes support preserving higher scores
- Multi-quiz merge with configurable curve caps
- Built with Python

[View on GitHub](https://github.com/ethanstoner/Quiz-Sorter-Program)

### MP4 to Short-Form Video Editor
**Social media content creation and scheduling tool**

An automated video processing system that segments long-form content into short-form videos optimized for social media platforms. Includes dynamic title generation, text overlay, and intelligent scheduling.

- Automatic video segmentation for short-form content using ffmpeg
- Dynamic title and text overlay generation with MoviePy
- Smart scheduling avoiding inactive hours (4-hour intervals)
- Ready-to-upload social media formatting
- Built with Python, ffmpeg, and MoviePy

### Additional Projects
- Automation scripts in Python
- Web applications with Node.js
- Containerized microservices
- Enterprise Java applications

## Let's Connect

<div align="center">

[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-100000?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/ethanstoner)
[![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-0077B5?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white)](https://linkedin.com/in/eastoner)
[![Email](https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-D14836?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail&logoColor=white)](https://mail.google.com/mail/?view=cm&fs=1&to=ethanstoner08@gmail.com&su=Hello%20Ethan&body=Hi%20Ethan,)

</div>

---

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://komarev.com/ghpvc/?username=ethanstoner&label=Profile%20views&color=0e75b6&style=flat" alt="Profile Views" />
  
  **Feel free to follow me — I'd really appreciate your support!**
</div>

---

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://media.giphy.com/media/L1R1tvI9svkIWwpVYr/giphy.gif" alt="Coding GIF" width="300" />
  
  **Thank you for visiting my page!**
</div>

Commit message:

Update tech stack: remove Grok, add AutoHotkey and REST API, adjust SQL entries

README.md, after:

# Hello, I'm Ethan!

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://readme-typing-svg.herokuapp.com?font=Fira+Code&pause=1000&color=00D4FF&center=true&vCenter=true&width=435&lines=Python+Developer;Java+Developer;JavaScript+Developer;Full+Stack+Developer;Automation+Engineer;macOS+%26+Windows+Developer" alt="Typing SVG" />
</div>

---

## About Me

I'm a passionate developer focused on building innovative solutions and exploring cutting-edge technologies. Currently enrolled in a computer science mentorship program with Cisco professionals, where I'm learning to create monetizable projects, process subscriptions, and analyze profitability—focusing on passion-driven work with strategic business guidance.

**Educational Background:**

- **Early Computer Introduction** - Introduced to computers at age 8, developing a strong passion for technology and computing
- **Reverse Engineering** - Analyzed systems to understand their inner workings and architecture
- **Cybersecurity Research** - Studied major cyberthreats throughout history, learning how vulnerabilities were exploited and how attacks were mitigated
- **Military Cyberwarfare** - Researched cybersecurity applications in military operations and national defense
- **First Coding Experience** - Discovered passion for programming in 8th grade STEM class
- **High School Computer Science** - Completed 3 years including AP Computer Science Principles (JavaScript with blocks), Python programming, and Java development courses
- **Current AP Courses** - Enrolled in AP Calculus AB, AP Statistics, and AP English Literature
- **Strong Foundation** - Comprehensive understanding across multiple programming paradigms

**Technical Skills:**

- **Python** - Primary language for automation and backend development
- **Java** - Enterprise application and system development
- **JavaScript** - Dynamic web application development
- **Lua** - Scripting and automation for macOS (Hammerspoon)
- **API Development** - Building and integrating RESTful APIs, webhooks, and third-party integrations
- **Cybersecurity** - Vulnerability analysis, attack vectors, and defense mechanisms
- **AI Integration** - Leveraging AI tools to enhance development efficiency
- **Reverse Engineering** - System analysis and architecture understanding
- **RF/Hardware Hacking** - Radio signal processing, infrared emulation, and hardware analysis
- **Docker** - Containerization and deployment
- **Node.js** - Server-side JavaScript development
- **HTML/CSS** - Web development and styling
- **Video Processing** - Automated content creation workflows
- **Data Analysis** - Educational workflow automation tools

## Tech Stack

<div align="center">

### Languages
![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=white)
![Java](https://img.shields.io/badge/Java-ED8B00?style=for-the-badge&logo=openjdk&logoColor=white)
![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/JavaScript-F7DF1E?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=black)
![Lua](https://img.shields.io/badge/Lua-2C2D72?style=for-the-badge&logo=lua&logoColor=white)
![HTML5](https://img.shields.io/badge/HTML5-E34F26?style=for-the-badge&logo=html5&logoColor=white)
![CSS3](https://img.shields.io/badge/CSS3-1572B6?style=for-the-badge&logo=css3&logoColor=white)

### Tools & Technologies
![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-2496ED?style=for-the-badge&logo=docker&logoColor=white)
![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-43853D?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white)
![Git](https://img.shields.io/badge/Git-F05032?style=for-the-badge&logo=git&logoColor=white)
![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-100000?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white)
![REST API](https://img.shields.io/badge/REST_API-FF6F00?style=for-the-badge&logo=rest&logoColor=white)
![Flask](https://img.shields.io/badge/Flask-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=flask&logoColor=white)
![FastAPI](https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-005571?style=for-the-badge&logo=fastapi&logoColor=white)
![AutoHotkey](https://img.shields.io/badge/AutoHotkey-334455?style=for-the-badge&logo=autohotkey&logoColor=white)

### Development Tools
![VS Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/VS_Code-007ACC?style=for-the-badge&logo=visual-studio-code&logoColor=white)
![Cursor](https://img.shields.io/badge/Cursor-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=cursor&logoColor=white)
![Hammerspoon](https://img.shields.io/badge/Hammerspoon-FF6600?style=for-the-badge&logo=hammerspoon&logoColor=white)

### AI Tools
![ChatGPT](https://img.shields.io/badge/ChatGPT-74AA9C?style=for-the-badge&logo=openai&logoColor=white)
![Cursor](https://img.shields.io/badge/Cursor_AI-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=cursor&logoColor=white)
![DeepSeek](https://img.shields.io/badge/DeepSeek-1F2937?style=for-the-badge&logo=deepseek&logoColor=white)
![Claude](https://img.shields.io/badge/Claude-CC785C?style=for-the-badge&logo=anthropic&logoColor=white)

### Platforms
![macOS](https://img.shields.io/badge/macOS-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=apple&logoColor=white)
![Windows](https://img.shields.io/badge/Windows-0078D6?style=for-the-badge&logo=windows&logoColor=white)

</div>

## Current Focus

- **Cisco Mentorship Program** - Learning to build monetizable projects and subscription-based businesses with profitability analysis
- **Passion-Driven Development** - Working on projects that align with my interests and technical goals
- **Business Strategy** - Understanding project viability through revenue analysis and cost evaluation
- Building modern web applications
- Mastering containerization with Docker
- Exploring microservices architecture
- Learning mobile development patterns

## GitHub Stats

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=ethanstoner&show_icons=true&theme=dark&hide_border=true&count_private=true" alt="GitHub Stats" />
  <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=ethanstoner&layout=compact&theme=dark&hide_border=true" alt="Top Languages" />
</div>

## GitHub Trophies

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github-profile-trophy.vercel.app/?username=ethanstoner&theme=darkhub&no-frame=true&row=1&column=7" alt="GitHub Trophies" />
</div>

## Streak Stats

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://streak-stats.demolab.com?user=ethanstoner&theme=dark&hide_border=true&date_format=M%20j%5B%2C%20Y%5D&cache_bust=1761858043" alt="GitHub Streak" />
</div>

## Featured Projects

### HumanLike Typer
**Realistic human typing emulator for macOS**

A sophisticated typing automation tool that simulates realistic human typing patterns with QWERTY-based typos, variable speed (90-130 WPM), and natural rhythm. Features include smart punctuation conversion, GUI configuration, and seamless integration with macOS.

- QWERTY-based typos with 60% adjacent-key mistakes and 40% transpositions
- Variable speed (90-130 WPM) with natural rhythm and pauses
- Smart punctuation conversion for seamless typing
- GUI configuration for speed and typo frequency
- Built with Lua and Hammerspoon

[View on GitHub](https://github.com/ethanstoner/humanlike-typer)

### Quiz Sorter for TAs
**Professional tool for organizing Wayground quiz data with attendance tracking**

A comprehensive solution designed specifically for Teaching Assistants to streamline quiz data processing. Features intelligent name matching, attendance integration, multi-quiz merging, and professional PDF output generation.

- Smart name matching and attendance integration
- Alphabetical sorting with professional PDF output
- Smart retakes support preserving higher scores
- Multi-quiz merge with configurable curve caps
- Built with Python

[View on GitHub](https://github.com/ethanstoner/Quiz-Sorter-Program)

### MP4 to Short-Form Video Editor
**Social media content creation and scheduling tool**

An automated video processing system that segments long-form content into short-form videos optimized for social media platforms. Includes dynamic title generation, text overlay, and intelligent scheduling.

- Automatic video segmentation for short-form content using ffmpeg
- Dynamic title and text overlay generation with MoviePy
- Smart scheduling avoiding inactive hours (4-hour intervals)
- Ready-to-upload social media formatting
- Built with Python, ffmpeg, and MoviePy

### Additional Projects
- Automation scripts in Python
- Web applications with Node.js
- Containerized microservices
- Enterprise Java applications

## Let's Connect

<div align="center">

[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-100000?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/ethanstoner)
[![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-0077B5?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white)](https://linkedin.com/in/eastoner)
[![Email](https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-D14836?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail&logoColor=white)](https://mail.google.com/mail/?view=cm&fs=1&to=ethanstoner08@gmail.com&su=Hello%20Ethan&body=Hi%20Ethan,)

</div>

---

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://komarev.com/ghpvc/?username=ethanstoner&label=Profile%20views&color=0e75b6&style=flat" alt="Profile Views" />
  
  **Feel free to follow me — I'd really appreciate your support!**
</div>

---

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://media.giphy.com/media/L1R1tvI9svkIWwpVYr/giphy.gif" alt="Coding GIF" width="300" />
  
  **Thank you for visiting my page!**
</div>
